---
title: 280SL
publishDate: 2023-03-12 00:00:00
img: /assets/mb300sl.jpg
img_alt: EMC.
description: |
 Mercedes-Benz presented the Pagode in March 1963, with removeable coupé roof and arched inwards.
tags:
  - Pop Art
  - Automotive
---

##  MB 280 SL 

#### *“Sport Leicht”* or *“Sport Lightweight”* in German 

> *Mercedes-Benz 280 SL* holds a special place in automotive history, representing a harmonious blend of style, performance, and luxury.

####  Description

The paint aims a less realistic painting with a looser and more fun painting porp-art style. Mixing vivid colors on this Mercedes-Benz classic is fun and attractive through a powerfull backgroud.  
    
  Original painting: "Bakken Pop-Art"  

* Acrylic on paper 
* Size
* Year 2023 

#### About the Pagoda 

Visually,  The Roadster was tasked with creating a more manageable and enjoyable driving experience.

Technical Data:   

* Power 125 kW / 170 hp
* Engine	6-Cylinder Engine size	2778 cm3
* 0-100 km/h 9,0 s 
* Vmax 200 km/h / 124 mph

####  Historical narrative
The Mercedes-Benz 280 SL, also known as the W113, is an iconic sports car produced by Mercedes-Benz from 1967 to 1971. It has a fascinating historic story that revolves around its design, performance, and cultural impact.

It was the successor to the 230 SL and the 250 SL models. The W113 series was known for its sleek and timeless design, featuring distinctive styling elements such as a pagoda-style hardtop, concave roof, and large windows.

One of the key aspects of the 280 SL was its engineering excellence. It was powered by a robust 2.8-liter inline-six engine, capable of producing 170 horsepower. The engine was mated to either a four-speed manual transmission or an optional four-speed automatic transmission. The car also featured independent suspension, power-assisted disc brakes, and other advanced technological features for its time.

The 280 SL gained popularity for its luxurious and comfortable interior. It featured high-quality materials, such as wood veneer, leather upholstery, and well-designed instruments and controls. The car was also equipped with amenities like air conditioning, power steering, and a Becker radio, which added to the overall driving experience.

The Mercedes-Benz 280 SL became an instant classic and was highly sought after by car enthusiasts and collectors around the world. It gained a reputation for its reliability, performance, and elegant design. Notably, it was often associated with celebrities and famous personalities of the era, further enhancing its desirability.

The cultural impact of the 280 SL is significant. It appeared in various films, television shows, and music videos, cementing its status as a symbol of luxury and style. The car's distinctive silhouette and timeless design continue to captivate automotive enthusiasts today.

Since the end of its production in 1971, the Mercedes-Benz 280 SL has become a highly collectible and valuable classic car. Well-preserved examples often command high prices at auctions and are cherished by enthusiasts worldwide.

 Its enduring appeal continues to resonate with car enthusiasts, making it a true icon of its time.